[MUSIC PLAYING]
- Once you have recognized
what this game of evolution
is about, the evolution of God
away from God and back to God,
once you understand
what you're doing here
on Earth, the meaning of your
every act starts to change.
And pretty soon,
your whole life is
designed towards awakening,
because you understand that
only in your own liberation from
your attachments and clingings,
not your responsibilities or
your incarnation or your love,
but from the
clinging and grabbing
that only in that freedom lies
the cessation of suffering.
And it's only when you do
as Christ admonished you to,
know the Father, not talk
about him, not just pray to him
but open yourself to become it,
only then will the whole thing
fall into place.
And there's nothing else to do.
There isn't any
other game in town.
There's nothing you
can offer me that
holds a candle to this process.
In order to go this
journey, you finally
demand of yourself
the discipline
of body, heart, and mind.
The quiet mind, that's
why you meditate.
The open heart, that's
why you practice devotion.
The strong body, that's why
you need to concern yourself
with your way in which you
keep your body and maintain.
Because when the spirit
of God enters you,
you have to be able to withstand
the power and the intensity
of love, the brightness, the
blinding brightness that would
wither you were
you not prepared.
And all of yoga
is the preparation
to in truth become
the bride of God.
That's what it's about.
That's what your
births are about.
That's what this life is about.
Give up the guilt. Give
up the unworthiness.
Give up the self-pity.
Give up the anger.
Give up the greed.
Give up the lust.
And every time you meet it
again, give it up again.
Here Christ, you take it.
That's what he went on
the cross for to take
that stuff from you.
That's what Kali is there
for in the Hindu tradition
to take that stuff from you.
That's what the guru is there
from the take it from you,
but you got to
want to give it up.
You get to the
point in this game
where everything in you that is
keeping you from getting home
you say forget it.
You are looking at a
map, and every side road
no matter how
pretty the mountains
if it's not getting you home it
doesn't interest you anymore.
First rule, listen
to your inner voice.
The second rule, be
honest with yourself.
The predicament is that you
listen to your inner voice,
and it leads you to a path.
And then you outgrow
it, and you don't
want to admit you've
outgrown it, because you've
made a big investment.
And you must be willing
to stand naked as
a newborn child again and
again and again and again
and again and again.
The name of this
game is surrender.
Surrender of who
you think you are
and where you think it all
is over and over again,
because what you
see from 1,000 feet
is not what you
see from 2,000 feet
and what you see from 3,000
feet, truth and trust.
And that trust in your inner
voice is based on the faith
that there is a divine
law which guides you.
When you look up,
when you say free me,
God help me, that
action of raising a hand
or reaching out, that's man's
will is what elicits grace.
And grace is all of the
beings on other planes
or on this plane who are
there only specifically
to liberate you, but they
are not living in time.
And there's no rush from
where they're sitting.
So they're not going
to come get you.
You got to initiate the action.
Every morning at 4:00,
Buddha would look out
over all the Buddha
fields to see
who is ready for enlightenment.
Christ says with two or more
are gathered in my name,
there I am.
You got to call me, then I come.
That's the grace the
grace is drawn by you,
and it's by you saying
I see my predicament.
I want to get out.
Help me.
Not with self-pity, but
I'm ready to be counted.
I am ready to stand
naked before God.
I am ready to come
to the father.
I ready to convert my
life so the whole process
is one of awakening.
I will lose myself 1,000
times into lust, greed, fear,
anxiety, et cetera, and 1001
times I will awaken and get up.
And I won't waste time
in guilt and shame.
I'll just get on with it.
That's the secret
of the whole game.
[MUSIC PLAYING]